Can the Bible save
a marriage that’s in danger?
The following interviews,
while very frank,
will show the exceeding value
of God’s own Word, the Bible,
to preserve that divine union.
Almost from the start of the marriage,
it was not running smoothly,
to say the least.
We were fighting constantly.
Even the smallest things
we would argue over,
and it would just get blown
out of proportion.
We couldn’t communicate
without it being an argument.
Steadily the arguments increased
in frequency and intensity.
And you think, ‘Well, I’m not happy here,’
and that’s when I threatened to leave.
Sometimes I felt
like completely giving up on the marriage.
There would be arguments
where you’d be packing the bags
and saying you’d wished you’d never done it.
And ultimately it would end in insults.
Jehovah was missing in our marriage,
and that was the essential part
of making our marriage work.
A brother and sister
that we’d known for a long time
initially offered us a Bible study.
They invited us
to their Family Worship evening
to have dinner
and to do The Watchtower with them,
which we accepted.
The Family Worship arrangement helped
because it wasn’t just Bible principles
that you read about,
but we saw them being applied
in this couple’s life.
And so all of a sudden,
I could see the cause and effect
of a Bible principle.
But the impact
that it was having was tremendous
because we could see how to apply
a Bible principle and make it work.
I think it took a long time
before things got better, honestly,
but the turning point
was coming back to Jehovah.
There were many principles
that all of a sudden
were like little light bulbs going off,
such as Jesus at John 13:34
when he recommended his example.
Ephesians 5:33
eventually had an impact on me,
because there were articles that pointed out
how important it is for a husband
to feel respected by his wife,
and I don’t think
I’d ever really appreciated that before.
I just viewed it as a mechanical process:
He’s the head;
he needs to have respect from his wife.
I didn’t recognize that it’s important
for a husband to feel respected
to be able to take on his role as head.
We’re so thankful
to Jehovah for his patience.
The Bible principles were always there;
we just weren’t making application of them.
As soon as we started to make application,
our marriage did a complete turnaround.
Where we are now is totally different.
The relationship that we have
is what we wanted at the start
but didn’t know how to get.
It’s just that application
of Bible principles
that has made it possible.
We were 17, actually, when we met
and 20 when we got married.
Life was good for Tony and me;
we were happy.
But then I got into another business
that became the main focus in my life.
It had quite a dramatic effect
on our spirituality.
We went through a time
when we hardly saw each other,
so there was a great deal
of time that we spent apart.
Bible principles were ones
that weren’t brought into our life.
At that time,
Bible reading was out of the picture.
I started delving into viewing things
that were really, really inappropriate.
And then it eventually happened
where I didn’t really care what I viewed,
and I didn’t think about the consequences
and of the unhappiness that it would cause.
It made me feel very, extremely, unloved.
I felt very angry about his behavior.
I felt a lot of resentment
towards him, a lot of bitterness.
We ended up in separation, to begin with.
I left Tony; I walked away from him.
I walked away from the marriage,
walked away from the business
and, eventually,
ended up unscripturally divorcing Tony.
The elders who were assisting me
helped me to see exactly how Jehovah felt
about what I’d been doing
and where my relationship was with him,
and it was quite poor.
I felt that because of the betrayal
that I had experienced,
I did not have a problem with my conscience
at all in going through the divorce.
It seemed the logical
and best way for me to go.
With my Bible reading,
I got to see Amos 5:15.
It really had an effect on me
because I needed to “hate what is bad,
and love what is good.”
One scripture that affected me
was from Malachi
about how Jehovah felt about divorce.
Altogether, it took us 15 years
before we got together again.
I was just enjoying
a day out in the field midweek,
and I got home in mid-afternoon.
And all of a sudden, my mobile phone rang,
and I heard Rhonda’s voice.
What a delight it was
that she was inviting me
to accompany her
for a cup of coffee somewhere
to talk about things!
If I hadn’t started
having a Scriptural intake
and learning to love God’s Word,
my life wouldn’t have changed.
Without the Bible,
Tony and I would not be together.
The marriage
would never ever have reconciled.
We have become best friends,
so we really enjoy
being in each other’s company
and serving Jehovah together.
Our married life now has certainly benefited
by both of us seeing
how beneficial the Scriptures are.
Tony and I are now very much a couple,
and so no matter what we deal with,
it’s us together.
When situations like these arise,
it’s not just our marriage that’s affected.
Our relationship with Jehovah is on the line!
Our dear sister, for example,
reached an emotional point
where she felt the only solution
was an unscriptural divorce.
As we make our decisions in marriage,
Jehovah’s feelings on the subject,
found at Malachi 2:16,
should be carefully considered:
“‘For I hate divorce,’
says Jehovah the God of Israel.”
If you find your marital peace is threatened,
review articles like the one
in the May 15, 2012, study edition
of The Watchtower entitled
“Take a Positive View
of a Strained Marriage.”
It provides powerful counsel that can help
to save and strengthen your marriage bond.